This notes will help in understanding how the project will be built and also understanding the terms of ML 
what is ML ?
Machine learning includes training a model for some prediction .. imagine in the way that u see clouds and say it"s gonna rain today 
in the same way we do give some data to a machine to get trained and predict and work for us 
proper defination : Machine Learning is when a computer learns patterns from data and makes predictions without being explicitly programmed

What is a feature?
feature = input to the model 

What is a label?
label is called a target it clearly indicates what we want to predict 

What is training/testing?
training data = data the model learns from 
testing data = testing the model from diff data to check if it actaully predicts by the pattren what it has learnt 

What is a model?
a system which learns the pattren 

What is a dataset ? 
it is a collection of info in table format 

-> importance of knowing the data set : if we have no idea what do have in the dataset and what features in the dataset is the model using for prediction
it would be hard to understand the process 

About the model I will be building now :
A e-commerce churn prediction model 

features the churn model will have 
( input labels )
1.customer activity 
2.website or app usage 
3.customer experience
4.target label ( out put )
( we do have more sub features inside it it clearly indicates what actualy matters ) 
-> learning to create a data set 
1. manually creating 
2. by using code ( python )
both the methods will be done by me now 
churn_data_manually.csv has the manually added one 
generate_data.py has the python code which created churn_data.csv

-> the main part has arrived now 
we have used logistic regression ML algorithm here to train the model 
why logistic regression ?
basic and easy to learn 
uses sigmoid function 
basically used to predict yes or no that is zero or one 
z = w1 * Age + w2 * TotalOrders + w3 * DaysAgo + b
prob = 1 / (1 + e^-z)
If z = big positive → prob close to 1

If z = big negative → prob close to 0

If z = 0 → prob = 0.5
why sigmoid is usefull here ?
Because probabilities MUST be between 0 and 1, and sigmoid guarantees that...
Also…
It is PERFECT for “yes/no” problems:
churn / not churn
since we clearly understood and learnt about the tarining algorithm no we will go to the next step 
Model evaluation 
1. what is model evaluation ?
checking how good the trained model is and there will be a lot of evaluation factors for different type of models used 
regression model may be evaluated by some features and logistic with some other etc  basically it depends on what model are we building 
Is it accurate?

Can it predict new data correctly?

Is it reliable for real-world use? these are questions answered by model evaluation 
what and come under evaluating a model they are ( for this model logistic regression and for churn prediction )
Confusion Matrix

Precision

Recall

F1 Score

ROC-AUC( they all are not LR only features evaluation depends on which evaluation will actually matter for the model  )
Recall → did we catch actual churners?

Precision → are our churn predictions correct?

AUC → can the model separate churn vs not?
Example: Churn prediction
// what is this actaully? understand with examples 
Goal = catch as many churners as possible
→ RECALL is most important

Example: Fraud detection

Goal = avoid accusing innocent users
→ PRECISION is important

Example: Medical diagnosis

Goal = don’t miss a sick patient
→ RECALL is very important

Example: Spam detection

Goal = don’t put real emails in spam
→ PRECISION is important

Different problem → different metric matters.( important to understand this )
//why are these metrics needed ? how do they help us ? 
 These metrics guide model improvement

They tell engineers:

Do we need more data?

Do we need balancing?

Do we need new features?

Is model underfitting or overfitting?

Do we need a different algorithm?
now updating the data set with more new features 
we use the same python code to generate a data set 
after the evaluation of model we get to know accuracy of the model which would help us in improving the model by scaling the model 
->how do we scale the model and why do we scale the model 
okay now some model training algorithms require scaling because they usually consider distance so scaling factor between some raw values will help 
will help model to consider even the small values 

LastPurchaseDaysAgo” = 160

“BrowsingTime” = 12

The model thinks “160” is more important, not because the feature is meaningful — just because the number is bigger
mean = 0

standard deviation = 1
z=(x-μ​)/σ
so  this how we do scaling in such algorithms 
Age becomes something like: -0.8, 0.3, 1.1

LastPurchaseDaysAgo becomes: 1.8, -0.4, -1.1

BrowsingTime: -0.2, 0.7, -1.4
-> my model performed very bad and has very less acuuracy and a bad auc score which is even lesser than the random guessing 
so why this happened and how do we solve it ? 
this happened because of class imbalance 
now what is class imbalance 
imagine we have 100 customers in total while 80 of them are non churn customers and 20 of them are churn 
the model learns from the highest class that is 80 customers so here the model becomes baised this is called class imbalance since we consider churn and not churn as class 

now we use smote technique to solve this 
what is smote ? 
Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique
It creates new fake examples of class 1 (churners) based on real ones.
Not duplicates.
Not random numbers.

But realistic synthetic samples by looking at nearest neighbors.